<script>{
	"title": "jQuery UI 1.7 Upgrade Guide",
	"toc": true
}</script>

## Overview

This guide will assist in upgrading from jQuery UI 1.5.x to jQuery UI 1.7.x.
All changes are listed below, organized by plugin, along with how to upgrade
your code to work with jQuery UI 1.7.

## Accordion

* Renamed `alwaysOpen` option to `collapsible` (`alwaysOpen` is deprecated, to
be removed in next release).
* Removed `selectedClass` for consistency reasons to the CSS Framework.
* Added `resize()` method.
* Added `changestart` callback that is triggered before the animation starts.
* Removed deprecated seperate jQuery method `.activate()` (use
`accordion( "activate" )` instead).
* Improved default for `header` option, removing the need to specify the option
in 99% of all accordions.

## Datepicker

* Removed options:
  * `clearStatus`
  * `clearText`
  * `closeAtTop`
  * `closeStatus`
  * `currentStatus`
  * `dateStatus`
  * `dayStatus`
  * `highlightWeek`
  * `initStatus`
  * `mandatory`
  * `monthStatus`
  * `nextBigStatus`
  * `nextBigText`
  * `nextStatus`
  * `prevBigStatus`
  * `prevBigText`
  * `prevStatus`
  * `rangeSelect`
  * `rangeSeparator`
  * `showBigPrevNext`
  * `showStatus`
  * `showWeeks`
  * `statusForDate`
  * `weekHeader`
  * `weekStatus`
  * `yearStatus`
* Modified options:
  * `changeMonth to default `false` - was `true`
  * `changeYear to default `false` - was `true`
* Added options:
  * `showButtonPanel` (default `false`)
* Added localizations:
  * Serbian
  * Greek
  * Malaysian
  * Albanian
  * Persian
  * Esperanto
  * Croatian

## Dialog

* Related events are now passed to all triggered events/callbacks (so for
example `keyCode` information is now available).
* Removed `options` and `element` from `ui` hash.
* Removed `overlay` option (workaround: use the CSS Framework to style the
overlay).
* The default `height` is now set to `"auto"` so it stretches the dialog by
default to the content height.
* Removed `autoResize` option (now always auto resizes).
* Added `closeText` option (default `"close"`).
* Added `beforeclose` callback for dialogs (can prevent closing the dialog by
returning `false`).
* Added `ui-dialog-dragging` and `ui-dialog-resizing` during drag and resize.
* Removed (undocumented) options: `dragHelper`, `resizeHelper`. If you need to
hide a dialog's contents during drag (for performance reasons), here are
two work-arounds:

CSS:
```css
.ui-dialog-dragging .ui-dialog-content {
	display: none;
}
```

JS:
```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	dragStart: function() {
		$( this ).hide();
	},
	dragStop: function() {
		$( this ).show();
	}
});
```

## Draggable

* Removed `options` from `ui` hash.
* Deprecated `absolutePosition` in `ui` hash, use `offset` instead.
* Added `addClasses` option.
* `connectToSortable` option now accepts selectors.
* Padding is now taken account in `containment` (previously, you could drag
"beyond" the padding).
* Added a `revertDuration` option since `revert` no longer checks for numbers.
* Implemented more advanced features to the `snap` option - you can now pass in
an object instead of a boolean into `snap`, possible keys are the callbacks
`snap`/`release` (which both receive `ui.snapItem`) and `items` (jQuery
selector, defaults to `:data(draggable)`).

## Droppable

* Added `addClasses` option.
* Deprecated `absolutePosition` in `ui` hash, use `offset` instead.
* In the `accept` function the context (`this`) is now the DOMElement, not a
wrapped jQuery object.

## Sortable

* Added support for `helper: "original"`. This way, the original element is
dragged while the placeholder gets reordered in the DOM, and on `mouseup`, the
DOM positions of placeholder and original switch. This is the recommended mode
from now on because it doesn't involve copying the element. For legacy reasons,
if you want to have it behave exactly like the old sortables, set the helper
option to `"clone"`.
* `appendTo` option is ignored if the helper option is set to `"original"`
(which is the default).
* Added `forcePlaceholderSize` option to force setting the height and width of
the placeholder to the height and width of the clicked element.
* Implemented the option `connected` (boolean), for the `serialize()` method to
also serialize connected lists.
* Stop logic overhaul:
  * `stop` (and all other events that are fired on end (`receive`, `update`,
  `remove`, `deactivate`)) is triggered after everything else has been
  normalized (placeholder and helper removed, position restored).
  * For old behaviour (for example to be able to check something on the
  placeholder at end), introduced new `beforeStop` callback.
* If a `key` option is specified to `sortable( "serialize" )`, brackets are no
longer automatically added to it.
* New cancelling logic:
  * If you want to completely cancel a sort (practically undo the ongoing sort),
  return `false` in any of the callbacks.
  * Or instead, call the `cancel()` method on the sortable.
* Refactored intersection logic:
  * Removed `"guess"` tolerance.
  * Introduced intelligent `"intersect"` tolerance (default).
* `connectWith` option now accepts selectors.
* Deprecated `absolutePosition` in `ui` hash, use `offset` instead.
* Padding is now taken account in `containment` (previously, you could drag
"beyond" the padding).

## Selectable

* Removed `element` and `options` from `ui` hash.
* Added missing `ui-selectable-helper` class to helper/lasso element.

## Slider

* `axis` option was changed to `orientation` for consistency with other plugins.
* `handle` option removed.
* `handles` option removed.
  * You can create custom handles manually and then simply add the class
`ui-slider-handle` and the slider will pick them up (not auto-gen).
* `ui.handle` property (in callback function) was changed to a DOMElement,
instead of a jQuery object.
  * Change `ui.handle` to `$( ui.handle )`.
* `steps`/`stepping` options removed in favor of `step` option.
* `startValue` and `moveTo` removed in favor of `value` and `values` options and
methods.
* `round` option removed.
* `distance` option removed.
* `noKeyboard` option removed.
* New range options: `min` and `max`.
* Handles are now left-aligned at the value. To center-align them, give the
handle a negative `margin-left` of `handlewidth / 2`. For example:

```css
.ui-slider-handle {
	width: 12px;
	margin-left: -6px;
}
```

For vertical slider handles, do the same with `height` and `margin-bottom`.

## Resizable

* Changed options:
  * `alsoResize` now accepts selector.
* Removed options:
  * `transparent` (workaround: use CSS).
  * `preserveCursor` (there's no usecase for `preserveCursor` set to `false`).
  * `proportionallyResize` (use `alsoResize` instead).
  * `knobHandles`

## Tabs

* Markup requires a container for list and panels, thus can no longer tabify a
`<ul>` directly. Instead, must call `.tabs()` on the containing element. In
other words, replace `$( "#tabs > ul" ).tabs();` with `$( "#tabs" ).tabs();`.
* Removed `options` from `ui` event object.
* Renamed `deselectable` option to `collapsible` (`deselectable` is deprecated,
to be removed in next release).
* Deprecated `null` as value for `selected` option in order to initialize tabs
without active tab, instead use `-1`.
* Removed ability to change class names via options.
* Added `abort()` method to terminate running ajax tab requests and animations.
* `cookie` option accepts addional `name` property.
* States for hover and focus (`.ui-state-hover`, `.ui-state-focus`) added.
* Default value for `spinner` option changed to `"<em>Loading…</em>"` (before
`em` was added internally).
