<script>{
	"title": "jQuery UI 1.8.5 Upgrade Guide",
	"toc": true
}</script>

## Overview

This guide will assist in upgrading from jQuery UI 1.8.4 to jQuery UI 1.8.5.
All changes are listed below, organized by plugin, along with how to upgrade
your code to work with jQuery UI 1.8.5.

## Button

### `disabled` attribute is read on initialization

([#5252](https://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5252))
By default the Button widget now determines whether the button should be enabled
or disabled on initialization by reading the `disabled` attribute from the
original element. You can still pass `true` or `false` on initialization to
explicitly set a specific state.

## Datepicker

### Date parsing is now case-insensitive

([#6036](https://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6036))
Previously, the Datepicker widget required dates to be formatting with specific
capitalization, e.g., `"01 Mar 2010"`. Now you can enter dates with any
capitalization you want, e.g., `"01 mar 2010"`, and it will be interpreted
properly.

## Dialog

## Improved `button` option

Until now it has only been possible to set the text and callback for buttons in
the Dialog widget. Now you have complete control over the attributes of the
button by providing an object of attributes to set.

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	buttons: [
		{
			text: "OK",
			click: function() {
				alert( "You clicked OK!" );
			}
		},
		{
			html: "I'm a <b>styled</b> button",
			"class": "ui-priority-secondary",
			disabled: "disabled",
			click: function() {
				alert( "How did you click a disabled button?!?" );
			}
		}
	]
});
```

The older, simpler syntax will continue to be supported as well.

## Position

### The `of` option now accepts jQuery objects containing a document or window

([#5963](https://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5963))
The Position utility is extremely flexible, allowing you to position an element
relative to any other element by specifying a selector, a jQuery object, the
document or the window. Now you can also pass a jQuery object containing a
document or window, e.g., `$( document )` and `$( window )`.

### Collision now takes margin into account

([#5766](https://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5766))
When performing collision detection, the margin around the element being
positioned is now taken into account. This means that if you have ten pixels of
margin on the right of the element, the right side of the element won't be able
to get closer than ten pixels from the right side of the window when collision
is turned on (assuming you're positioning to the right).

## Tabs

### Ability to contain lists inside a tab

Tabs can now contain lists. This is useful for creating menus inside a tab.

## Widget

### Widgets now throw errors for invalid method calls

([#5972](https://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5972))
When calling a method that doesn't exist, or calling a method before a widget
has been initialized, the widget will now throw an exception. Previously the
method calls were simply ignored, which could mask errant code, since such calls
are likely logic errors.
