<script>{
	"title": "jQuery UI 1.8.4 Upgrade Guide",
	"toc": true
}</script>

## Overview

This guide will assist in upgrading from jQuery UI 1.8.3 to jQuery UI 1.8.4.
All changes are listed below, organized by plugin, along with how to upgrade
your code to work with jQuery UI 1.8.4.

## Core

### Added dimension setters

([#5850](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5850))
The following method signatures have been added for setting dimensions:

* Added `.innerWidth( value )` to set the width, including padding.
* Added `.innerHeight( value )` to set the height, including padding.
* Added `.outerWidth( value, [includeMargin] )` to set the width, including
padding and borders, and optionally margins.
* Added `.outerHeight( value, [includeMargin] )` to set the height, including
padding and borders, and optionally margins.

## Accordion

### Added ability to specify multiple events

([#3614](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3614))
You can now pass multiple event types, space delimited, to the `event` option.
Although there isn't really any combination of native events that make sense to
use together, there are cases where using multiple custom events, or a
combination of native and custom events is useful.

For example, if you're using the hover intent plugin, you can set the accordion
to react to both the `click` event and the `hoverintent` event:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	event: "click hoverintent"
});
```

## Autocomplete

### Added `appendTo` option

([#5836](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5836))
You can now define which element the menu is appended to. The default is to
append to the body, which is the previous behavior. The `appendTo` option takes
any valid selector. If the selector matches multiple elements, the menu will be
appended to the first matched item.

```js
$( "#autocomplete" ).autocomplete({
	appendTo: "#foo"
});
```

### Added position option

([#5153](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5153))
You can now define where the menu will be displayed. The default is to display
the menu below the text field, with the left edges aligned. The full
[position API](http://api.jqueryui.com/position/) is available for use.

To have the menu display above the text field, you can do:

```js
$( "#autocomplete" ).autocomplete({
	position: {
		my: "left bottom",
		at: "left top"
	}
});
```

### Removed styling for `ui-autocomplete-loading` class

([#5385](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5385))
Previously the loading class would add an animated loading gif to the background
of the text field. This has been removed until ThemeRoller can support
generating animated images.

You can recreate the previous styling by defining a rule for the
`ui-autocomplete-loading` class in your stylesheet:

```css
.ui-autocomplete-loading {
	background: #f00 url("images/loading.gif") right center no-repeat;
}
```

### Labels are now treated as text, not HTML

([#5275](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5275))
If you want the old functionality back, you can use
[Scott González' html extension](https://github.com/scottgonzalez/jquery-ui-extensions/blob/master/src/autocomplete/jquery.ui.autocomplete.html.js)
which adds a boolean `html` option.

## Dialog

### Added ability to use the [position API](http://api.jqueryui.com/position/) for the `position` option

([#5459](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5459))
Passing a string or array to the `position` option still works, but will be
removed in a future version.

If you're currently using strings for the `position` option, you will now need
to pass an object containing two properties: `my` and `at`, each with the same
string you're passing now. For example, if you're currently doing:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	position: "left"
});
```

You should switch to:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	position: {
		my: "left",
		at: "left"
	}
});
```

If you're currently using arrays for the `position` option, you will now need
to pass an object telling the dialog to position itself in the top left corner,
with an offset equal to what you're currently passing. For example, if you're
currently doing:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	position: [ 20, 100 ]
});
```

You should switch to:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	position: {
		my: "left top",
		at: "left top",
		offset: "20 100"
	}
});
```

Note that `offset` is a string containing both the horizontal and vertical
offset delimited by a space.

### Buttons are now accessed in the proper order

([#4529](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4529))
Previously the default styling for buttons was to have them float right, causing
them to be ordered and tabbed to in reverse order. A wrapper div has been added
around the buttons, and the wrapper is now floated right. This means that if you
have dialogs with multiple buttons, the order will be different.

Let's assume you've created a dialog with the following options:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	buttons: {
		OK: function() {},
		Cancel: function() {}
	}
});
```

In previous versions, this would results in the OK button being displayed on the
right and the Cancel button being displayed on the left, which is the opposite
from how they're ordered in the object. However, when tabbing through the dialog,
the OK button would gain focus before the Cancel button.

In 1.8.4, this will result in the OK button being displayed on the left and the
Cancel button being dispalyed on the right. The buttons will still be tabbed
through in the same order, following the tab order users would expect based on
the visual layout.

If you want your buttons to continue displaying in the same visual order as they
have been, you will need to define your buttons in the reverse order from what
you're currently using. So the above code would become:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	buttons: {
		Cancel: function() {},
		OK: function() {}
	}
});
```

## Tabs

### Added ability to reference tabs by href

([#3171](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3171))
Let's assume you have a set of tabs created from the following list:

```html
<ul>
	<li><a href="#foo">foo</a></li>
	<li><a href="#bar">bar</a></li>
	<li><a href="#baz">baz</a></li>
</ul>
```

You can activate the bar tab by calling the `select()` method with an index
of `1`:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "select", 1 );
```

However, keeping track of the index for each tab can be difficult, especially
if you've customized your tabs by making them closable or sortable. To make this
easier, we've added the ability to pass the `href` instead of the index:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "select", "#bar" );
```

The same syntax can be used for the `enable()`, `disable()`, `load()` and
`remove()` methods.
