<script>{
	"title": "jQuery UI 1.8.6 Upgrade Guide",
	"toc": true
}</script>

## Overview

This guide will assist in upgrading from jQuery UI 1.8.5 to jQuery UI 1.8.6.
All changes are listed below, organized by plugin, along with how to upgrade
your code to work with jQuery UI 1.8.6.

## Widget

### Added ability to define new methods for gathering options on initialization

([#6158](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6158))
Sometimes you want to allow users to specify options through a method other
than passing an object during initialization. For example, you may want to allow
users to specify options through data attributes, but still have any options
passed during initialization take precedence. This is now possibly by defining a
`_getCreateOptions()` method.

Here's an example from jQuery Mobile which will check for data attributes based
on which options are defined in the widget's prototype:

```js
_getCreateOptions: function() {
	var elem = this.element,
		options = {};
	$.each( this.options, function( option ) {
		var value = elem.data( option.replace( /[A-Z]/g, function( c ) {
			return "-" + c.toLowerCase();
		} ) );
		if ( value !== undefined ) {
			options[ option ] = value;
		}
	});
	return options;
}
```

### Widgets no longer throw errors for invalid method calls

([#5972](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5972))
In 1.8.5, widgets started throwing errors when calling a method that doesn't
exist, or calling a method before a widget has been initialized. We have
reverted back to the previous behavior of simply ignoring these calls because
this was a breaking change that should not have been introduced in a minor
release. However, we will go back to throwing errors in the next major release.

## Autocomplete

### Allow default behavior on enter when menu is open but inactive

([#6038](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6038))
([#6055](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6055))
Previously when pressing enter while the menu was open, we would prevent the
default action only if a menu item was active (highlighted). We now prevent the
default action solely based on the visibility of the menu, so even if no menu
item is active, we still prevent the default action. This prevents forms from
submitting when the user is just trying to enter a value in the text field.
Additionally, there was a bug in Opera where the form would be submitted even
when we prevented the default action; this has been fixed.

### Split menu resizing logic into its own method

The code for resizing the menu after each search has been moved out of the
`_suggest()` method and into a new `_resizeMenu()` method. This provides a more
logical method to override if you are trying to implement custom menu sizing.

## Dialog

### Don't change DOM position on open

([#6137](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6137))
([#4589](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4589))
([#4534](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4534))
Dialogs no longer get moved around in the DOM when they are opened. The only
time the dialog is moved now is during initialization when it is appended to the
body. This fixes a slew of problems, such as form elements being reset, iframes
reloading, etc.

## Progressbar

### Added `complete` event

([#3500](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3500))
Progressbar now has a `complete` event that is triggered when the `value` option
reaches the same value as the `max` option.

```js
$( "#progressbar" ).progressbar({
	complete: function() {
		alert( "The action is complete!" );
	}
});

$( ":ui-progressbar" ).live( "progressbarcomplete", function() {
	alert( "Some action has completed." );
});
```

## Effects

### Allow `borderColor` to be animated

([#6164](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6164))
You can now pass the `borderColor` shorthand property to `.animate()` in order
to animate all borders with a single property.

```js
$( "#elem" ).animate({
	borderColor: "red"
});
```
