<script>{
	"title": "jQuery UI 1.8 Upgrade Guide",
	"toc": true
}</script>

## Overview

This guide will assist in upgrading from jQuery UI 1.7.x to jQuery UI 1.8.x.
All changes are listed below, organized by plugin, along with how to upgrade
your code to work with jQuery UI 1.8.

## Accordion

* Removed `alwaysOpen` option in favor of `collapsible` option ([#4030](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4030))

## Datepicker

* The yearRange option now allows different formats for each half of the range,
e.g. `"1950:-18"`. This means that relative years must always use a `"+"` or
`"-"` to indicate their status. In particular, to reference the current year you
must use `"+0"`, e.g., `"-10:+0"`.
* To suppress show/hide animations set `showAnim` to blank or `false` instead of setting `duration` to `0`.
* Manually entered dates now update the alternate field.
* Default tab processing is no longer suppressed.

## Dialog

* `beforeclose` option changed to `beforeClose` - `beforeclose` is now
deprecated and will be removed in the next release.
* Dialog buttons now use the new Button widget, it has to be included to get
properly themed dialog buttons. If it is missing, plain unthemed buttons will be
used, which will still work, just not look as nice.

## Draggable

* Removed `ui.absolutePosition` in callbacks ([#3990](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3990))
* Changed `stack` option to accept a selector instead of a hash ([#4365](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4365))

## Droppable

* Removed `ui.absolutePosition` in callbacks ([#3989](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3989))

## Widget

### Widget prototype changes

* `$.widget.prototype` to `$.Widget.prototype` so it can fully use prototypal
inheritance (`$.Widget` is a constructor).
* Renamed `_init()` to `_create()`.
* A new `_init()` method was added to perform "default functionality".
* `_init()` is called every time the plugin is called without passing the name
of a method to invoke.
* Renamed `_setData()` to `_setOption()`.
* Removed `_getData()` since it should never be overridden.
* Removed bindings for data events, must always use the `option()` method now.
* Added `widget()` to return the main/outermost element of the widget.
* Getter methods no longer need to be explicitly defined. Any method that
returns a value other than `undefined` or the plugin instance is automatically
treated as a getter. This also adds the ability to define a method that can act
as a chainable setter and a getter.
* `destroy()` now removes all widget-namespaced events bound to `this.element`
and `this.widget()`.
* `option()` with no parameters now returns the full options hash.
* Instantiating a widget directly via the `new` keyword now fully initializes
the widget (no need to call the initialization method after the constructor).

### Properties moved from `$.ui.foo` to `$.ui.foo.prototype`

* `$.ui.foo.defaults` -> `$.ui.foo.prototype.options`
* `$.ui.foo.eventPrefix` -> `$.ui.foo.prototype.widgetEventPrefix`

### Other changes

* `$.widget()` now accepts a base widget to extend as the second parameter;
defaults to `$.Widget`.
* Added `$.widget.bridge()` to allow creation of stateful plugins using a custom
constructor.
* Calling the constructor method multiple times now performs an action. If a
hash is passed to the constructor, that hash is passed to the `option() method
and the `_init()` method is called.

### New Widget Method

A new common method has been added, called `widget()`. This method will return
the `.ui-{pluginname}` element. Depending on the plugin, in many cases this is
different than the original element, otherwise it will return the original
element.

For example, when you call `$( "#myDiv" ).dialog()` the `#myDiv` element gets
the `.ui-dialog-content` class while a generated wrapper element gets the
`.ui-dialog` class. Before the widget method existed it was a bit of a pain to
call `$( "#myDiv" ).closest( ".ui-dialog" ) and though that worked in this case,
for many plugins that doesn't work, for example, Datepicker, or Autocomplete,
where the widget element is not a wrapper.

Now with the `widget()` method, you can simply call
`$( "#myDiv" ).dialog( "widget" )` to get the widget element.

### Example code

[An example for migrating a custom widget from 1.7 to 1.8.](https://github.com/scottgonzalez/jquery-ui-1.8-widget-factory)
