<script>{
	"title": "jQuery UI 1.9 Upgrade Guide"
}</script>
# jQuery UI 1.9 Upgrade Guide

## Overview

This guide will assist in upgrading from jQuery UI 1.8.x to jQuery UI 1.9.x.
All changes are listed below, organized by plugin, along with how to upgrade
your code to work with jQuery UI 1.9.

## API Redesigns

jQuery UI 1.9 introduces API redesigns for Accordion, Position, Tabs, and Effects.
You can read about the API redesign process on the
[jQuery UI Blog](http://blog.jqueryui.com/2011/03/api-redesigns-the-past-present-and-future/).
Although the redesigns introduce breaking changes,
**1.9 maintains full compatibility with the 1.8 API by default.**
This is accomplished by rebuilding the 1.8 API on top of the 1.9 API. The
default behavior for all 1.9 releases will be to simultaneously use the 1.8
and 1.9 APIs, deferring to the 1.8 API if there is a conflict. If you would like
to load just the 1.9 API without the 1.8 API, you can set the `$.uiBackCompat`
flag to `false`.

```html
<script src="jquery.js"></script>
<script>$.uiBackCompat = false;</script>
<script src="jquery-ui.js"></script>
```

This will prevent the initialization of the back-compat layer, allowing you to
use the 1.9 API in cases where there is a conflict with the 1.8 API.

### Preparing for jQuery UI 1.10

The API redesigns deprecate a lot of functionality, which will be removed in 1.10.
You don't have to wait for the 1.10.0 release in order to find out if your code
will work when the 1.8 APIs are removed. You can use the `$.uiBackCompat` flag
to test this with any 1.9 release.

**If you find a regression from the 1.8 API, please report it in the
[bug tracker](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/newticket). Even though the 1.8 API is
deprecated, it's important for 1.9 releases not to regress so that users are
encouraged to upgrade even if they're not ready to use the new APIs.**



## Core

### Added `.uniqueId()` and `.removeUniqueId()` methods

([#8361](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8361))
Many widgets need to generate unique ids for elements. `.uniqueId()` will check
if the element has an id, and if not, it will generate one and set it on the
element. It is safe to call `.uniqueId()` on an element without checking if it
already has an id. If/when the widget needs to clean up after itself, the
`.removeUniqueId()` method will remove the id from the element if it was added
by `.uniqueId()` and leave the id alone if it was not. `.removeUniqueId()` is
able to be smart about this because the generated ids have a prefix of `"ui-id-"`.

Let's say you have an element containing some content on the page and you want
to add an anchor linking to the element. If you're not sure whether the element
already has an id that you can reference, you can use `.uniqueId()`.

```js
var id = element.uniqueId().attr( "id" );
$( "<a>" )
	.attr( "href", "#" + id )
	.text( "jump to the content" )
	.appendTo( navigationElement );
```

Later, if you want to restore the element to its original state, you can use
`.removeUniqueId()` to ensure that you only remove the id if it was generated
by `.uniqueId()`.

```js
element.removeUniqueId();
```



### Deprecated `$.ui.contains`

([#5000](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5000))
jQuery 1.4 added [`$.contains`](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.contains/), with
the same API as `$.ui.contains`. You should replace all uses of `$.ui.contains`
with `$.contains`; since the APIs are identical, this is a simple search and replace.

**`$.ui.contains` will be removed in 1.10.**



### Removed modifier keys from `$.ui.keyCode`

([#7613](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7613))
The key codes for modifier keys are not consistent across browsers, so the values
provided in `$.ui.keyCode` were not reliable. In addition, you generally don't
want to listen for key presses on meta keys. In almost every situation, you would
be listening for another key press and checking if a meta key is being pressed
at the same time. The key codes are not useful in this situation, and you should
use the event properties such as `altKey` and `shiftKey` instead.

The following keys were removed from `$.ui.keyCode`: `ALT`, `CAPS_LOCK`, `COMMAND`,
`COMMAND_LEFT`, `COMMAND_RIGHT`, `CONTROL`, `INSERT`, `MENU`, `SHIFT`, `WINDOWS`.



### Changed naming convention for `.data()` keys

([#7810](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7810))
The naming convention for data stored using `.data()` was somewhat inconsistent
before, with various plugins using various formats. We've now standardized on
dashed names, prefixed with the full plugin name. Widget instances now use the
full name, including the namespace, e.g., `ui-dialog` instead of `dialog`. Tabs
now uses `ui-tabs-destroy` instead of `destroy.tabs`. Slider now uses
`ui-slider-handle-index` instead of `index.ui-slider-handle`. Autocomplete now
uses `ui-autocomplete-item` instead of `item.autocomplete`. Effects now use
`ui-effect-*` instead of `ec.storage.*`. Some of these were purely internal, and
some were useful to users. The ones that were useful to users, specifically
the widget instances and autocomplete items, still support the old names, though
they are now deprecated.

**Non-namespaced widget instances and `item.autocomplete` will be removed in 1.10.**



## Accordion

The Accordion API has been redesigned. You may want to read the
[discussions behind the changes](https://forum.jquery.com/topic/accordion-api-redesign).

### Added data to the `create` event

([#7869](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7869))
The `create` event now provides `header` and `content` data. This makes it
easier to write consistent code for initialization and activation.

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	create: function( event, ui ) {
		// Header that is active on initialization
		ui.header
		// Panel that is active on initialization
		ui.panel
	}
});
```



### Headers no longer require a child anchor element

Accordions used to require a single anchor inside each header. This requirement
has been dropped, allowing headers to be as simple or complex as you want.
No change is required, though removing the anchors is highly encouraged as they
are no longer being automatically removed from the tab order.

Old API:

```html
<div>
	<h3><a href="#">Section 1</a></h3>
	<p>...</p>
	<h3><a href="#">Section 2</a></h3>
	<p>...</p>
</div>
```

New API:

```html
<div>
	<h3>Section 1</h3>
	<p>...</p>
	<h3>Section 2</h3>
	<p>...</p>
</div>
```



### Deprecated `changestart` event; renamed to `beforeActivate`

([#6840](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6840))
The `changestart` event has been renamed to `beforeActivate` for consistency
with other plugins in jQuery UI. The data provided in the event is the same,
but some of the names have changed: `newContent` is now `newPanel` and
`oldContent` is now `oldPanel`. You should replace all uses of the `changestart`
event with the `beforeActivate` event.

Old API:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	changestart: function( event, ui ) {
		// Panel that is currently active, about to be deactivated
		ui.oldContent
		// Header associated with the currently active panel
		ui.oldHeader
		// Panel that is about to be activated
		ui.newContent
		// Header associated with the panel that is about to be activated
		ui.newHeader
	}
});
```

New API:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	// CHANGED (previously changestart)
	beforeActivate: function( event, ui ) {
		// Panel that is currently active, about to be deactivated
		// CHANGED (previously oldContent)
		ui.oldPanel
		// Header associated with the currently active panel
		ui.oldHeader
		// Panel that is about to be activated
		// CHANGED (previously newContent)
		ui.newPanel
		// Header associated with the panel that is about to be activated
		ui.newHeader
	}
});
```

*Note: Although the callback name is camelCase, all event names are lowercase;
therefore the associated event name is `accordionbeforeactivate`.*

**The `changestart` event will be removed in 1.10.**



### Allow Canceling the `beforeActivate` event

([#6896](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6896))
The `beforeActivate` event (previously `changestart`) is now cancelable. If
you prevent the default action inside the `beforeActivate` event, the panel will
not be activated.

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	beforeActivate: function( event, ui ) {
		if ( ui.newHeader.text() === "Don't Activate Me" ) {
			event.preventDefault();
		}
	}
});
```



### Deprecated `change` event; renamed to `activate`

([#6842](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6842))
The `change` event has been renamed to `activate` for consistency
with other plugins in jQuery UI. Just like the `beforeActivate` event,
the data provided in the event is the same, but some of the names have changed:
`newContent` is now `newPanel` and `oldContent` is now `oldPanel`.
You should replace all uses of the `change` event with the `activate` event.

**The `change` event will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `resize` method; renamed to `refresh`

([#6838](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6838))
The `resize` method has been renamed to `refresh` for consistency with other
plugins in jQuery UI. The method currently has the exact same behavior as the
old `resize` method, though it may support adding/removing panels in the future.
You should replace all uses of the `resize` method with the `refresh` method.

**The `resize` method will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `icons.headerSelected` option; renamed to `icons.activeHeader`

([#6834](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6834))
The icon for the active header has been renamed from `headerSelected` to
`activeHeader` to accompany the other changes for consistency with the term
"active". You should replace all uses of `icons.headerSelected` with
`icons.activeHeader`.

Old API:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	icons: {
		// Icon for collapsed headers
		header: "ui-icon-circle-arrow-e",
		// Icon for active header
		headerSelected: "ui-icon-circle-arrow-s"
	}
});
```

New API:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	icons: {
		// Icon for collapsed headers
		header: "ui-icon-circle-arrow-e",
		// Icon for active header
		// CHANGED (previously headerSelected)
		activeHeader: "ui-icon-circle-arrow-s"
	}
});
```

**The `icons.headerSelected` option will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `autoHeight`, `clearStyle`, and `fillSpace` options; merged into `heightStyle`

([#5871](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5871))
([#5867](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5867))
The `autoHeight`, `clearStyle`, and `fillSpace` options were all booleans which
controlled how the height of each panel was determined. Since these options
couldn't all be used together, the API was confusing and there were combinations
that were invalid. These have all been merged into a single option, `heightStyle`,
which accepts a string defining which mode to use. The possible values are:

* `auto`: All panels will be set to the height of the tallest panel.
* `content`: Each panel will be only as tall as its content.
* `fill`: The accordion will expand to fill the available space in the accordion's parent.

You should replace all uses of the `autoHeight`, `clearStyle`, and `fillSpace`
options with the `heightStyle` option.

Old API:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	fillSpace: true
});
```

New API:

```js
$( "#accordion" ).accordion({
	// CHANGED (previously fillSpace: true)
	heightStyle: "fill"
});
```

**The `autoHeight`, `clearStyle`, and `fillSpace` options will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `activate` method

([#6836](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6836))
The `activate` method has been deprecated in favor of simply updating the `active`
option. You should replace all calls to the `activate` method with calls to
the `option` method to change the `active` option.

Old API:

```js
// Activate the third panel (zero-based index)
$( "#accordion" ).accordion( "activate", 2 );
```

New API:

```js
// Activate the third panel
$( "#accordion" ).accordion( "option", "active", 2 );
```

**The `activate` method will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `navigation` and `navigationFilter` options

([#5869](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5869))
The `navigation` and `navigationFilter` options provided a way to automatically
select which panel should be active on initialization based on the URL. This
functionality was disabled by default and is only one of many ways that you might
want to determine which panel to activate on initialization. As such, we've
deprecated this in favor of just handling the logic outside of accordion and
setting the `active` option appropriately. You should remove all uses of the
`navigation` and `navigationFilter` options.

**The `navigation` and `navigationFilter` options will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated support for activating panels with selectors or collapsing with `-1`

([#6852](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6852))
It was previously possible to activate panels using a selector which was used to
find a header. It was also possible to use `-1` or any falsey value to indicate
that no panel should be active and the accordion should be collapsed. Support for
selectors has been deprecated and numeric indexes should be used instead. Support
for collapsing via `-1` has also been deprecated and `false` should be used instead.

*Note: When using the 1.9 API, negative indexes will select from the last panel,
similar to `.eq()`.*

**Support for selectors and collapsing with `-1` will be removed in 1.10.**



### Removed `ui-accordion-disabled` class

([#8193](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8193))
Accordion was adding the `ui-accordion-disabled` class to disabled headers and
panels, which was a remnant of earlier designs. This class has been removed in
favor of the generic `ui-state-disabled` class, which was also being applied.
If you were styling the `ui-accordion-disabled` class, you will need to switch
to styling `ui-state-disabled`.



## Autocomplete

### Added `response` event

([#6777](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6777))
There is now a `response` event that is triggered whenever a response is received,
even if the menu will not be shown because there are no results or the autocomplete
has become disabled. The array of items is passed as the content property in the
event data and can be modified before the menu is shown.

```js
$( "#autocomplete" ).autocomplete({
	src: [],
	response: function( event, ui ) {
		// Always add a "jQuery" item
		ui.content.push({ label: "jQuery", value: "jQuery" });
	}
});
```

*Note: The content is already normalized prior to the `response` event, so if
you modify the data, you should take care to include both `label` and `value`
properties.*



### Added support for `contentEditable`

([#6914](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6914))
Autocomplete started with support for `input` elements, then expanded to support
`textarea` elements, and now even supports editable elements via the
`contentEditable` attribute. Just like `textarea`s, when using autocomplete on
editable elements, the up and down arrows will not invoke a search, allowing the
user to freely move through the content.



### Synchronous `change` event

([#7550](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7550))
Previously, interactions with the menu could shift focus from the text field to
the menu itself. This meant that we had to delay the handling of `blur` events,
which caused the `change` event to be asynchronous. This caused problems in
various situations, such as performing validations in the `change` event, but
having a form submit before the event was triggered. We have since found a way
to handle the focus changes while still triggering the `change` event
synchronously. It's unlikely that you will need to change any code to accommodate
this change, but since the timing of the event has changed, we though it was
worth mentioning.



### Blurring a suggestion no longer changes the value of the input

([#7742](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7742))
Blurring a suggestion in the menu had different behavior based on keyboard
navigation or mouse navigation. When using the mouse, the value in the text field
would be reset back to the serach term. We have removed this behavior, resulting
in consistent behavior between mouse and key navigation. This also brings us
in line with Firefox's Awesome Bar, which we have been using as a model.



### Added experimental `messages` option for accessibility

We now use ARIA live regions to announce when results become available and how
to navigate through the list of suggestions. The announcements can be configured
via the `messages` option, which has two properties: `noResults` for when no items
are returned and `results` for when at least one item is returned. In general,
you would only need to change these options if you want the string to be written
in a different language. The `messages` option is subject to change in future
versions while we work on a full solution for string manipulation and
internationalization across all plugins. If you're interested in the `messages`
option, we encourage you to just read the source; the relevant code is at the
very bottom of the autocomplete plugin and is only a few lines.



## Dialog

### Added `ui-dialog-buttons` class

([#7057](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7057))
Dialogs now have a `ui-dialog-buttons` class added to the outermost element when
the button pane is present. This allows different styling based on whether or
not there are buttons in the bottom of the dialog.



### Properly account for padding when calculating height

([#7692](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7692))
The height of the dialog was previously calculated incorrectly if there was
padding on the dialog element. Dialogs now properly account for padding when
setting the height of the dialog. While this is just a bug fix, the height of
your dialogs will be smaller than they previously were if you were adding padding
to the dialog and setting an explicit height via the `height` option.



### Dialogs return to their previous DOM position on destroy

([#4980](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4980))
When a dialog is initialized, it is moved to the end of the DOM as a direct
child of the body. This ensures that the z-index can be properly applied to
bring the dialog in front of the rest of the page. Previously, upon destroy, the
dialog would stay at the end of the DOM. Now, the dialog will return to its
original position. This is accomplished by tracking the original parent of the
dialog. If you were previously moving the dialog back to its original position
on destroy, you can remove your workarounds for this.

*Note: The dialog does not move back to its original position when closed,
only when destroyed.*



### Removed `beforeclose` option

([#5100](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5100))
The `beforeclose` option was deprecated in 1.8 in favor of `beforeClose` and has
now been removed. You must replace all uses of the `beforeclose` option with
`beforeClose`.

Old API:

```js
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	beforeclose: function() {}
});
```

New API:

```
$( "#dialog" ).dialog({
	// CHANGED (previously beforeclose)
	beforeClose: function() {}
});
```



## Position

The Position API has been redesigned. You may want to read the
[discussions behind the changes](https://forum.jquery.com/topic/position-api-redesign).

### Improved collision detection

([#5284](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5284))
Previously, the position utility was only smart enough to detect if there was a
collision, but not whether applying the collision logic would improve the
situation. This resulted in a few cases where applying the collision logic would
make the situation worse. For example, an element may be 80% visible, but have a
collision and flipping may result in the element only being 20% visible. The flip
and fit collision methods have been adjusted to only apply if they make the
positioning improve (for fit that means limiting how far the element can shift).



### Added new collision mode: flipfit

([#7492](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7492))
Position now supports `"flipfit"` as a collision mode. When there is a collision,
this mode will first run the flip collision logic followed by the fit collision
logic. This allows the element to be adjusted by the best mode possible.

```js
element.position({
	my: "left top",
	at: "right top",
	of: otherElement,
	collision: "flipfit"
});
```



### Added `within` option for improved collision handling

([#5645](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5645))
Collision detection was previously only supported for collisions with the window.
The new `within` option allows you to specify an element to use to calculate the
collision boundaries. The value can be an element, document, window, jQuery object,
or selector. The `within` option is optional and defaults to `window`.

```js
element.position({
	my: "left top",
	at: "right top",
	of: otherElement,
	within: "#container"
});
```



### Added support for percent-based offsets

([#7028](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7028))
Offsets can now be specified as a percentage of the element's size or as a
percentage of the target's size. Perctanges placed inside the `my` option will
be based on the element's size and percentages placed inside the `at` option will
be based on the target's size.

```js
element.position({
	my: "left+10% top+10%",
	at: "right top",
	of: otherElement
});
```

*Note: Offsets are now merged into the `my` and `at` options. See below.*



### Deprecated `offset` option; merged into `my` and `at`

([#6981](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6981))
The `offset` option has been deprecated and offsets have been merged into the
`my` and `at` options. The form for a position is now the named position,
optionally followed by a plus or minus and then an offset. In addition, offsets
now support percentages (see above). You should replace all uses of the `offset`
option with offsets placed inside the `my` and/or `at` options.

Old API:

```js
element.position({
	my: "left top",
	at: "right top",
	of: otherElement,
	offset: "10 -20"
});
```

New API:

```js
element.position({
	// CHANGED (previously used offset option in addition to my option)
	my: "left+10 top-20",
	at: "right top",
	of: otherElement
});
```

**Note: The `offset` option will be removed in 1.10.**



### Added positioning feedback to the `using` callback

([#5937](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5937))
There are quite a few use cases where it's important to know where the element
being positioned ended up relative to the target element. For example, if you're
creating a tooltip or providing additional information about an item and you want
to have the element pointing to the target to provide some additional context.
The position utility now exposes a lot of detail about the positioning of the
element and the target in order to handle these types of scenarios. In order to
get access to this information, you'll need to provide a `using` callback.

```js
element.position({
	using: function( position, data ) {
		// Information about the element being positioned
		data.element
		// jQuery object containing the element
		data.element.element
		// Left offset of the element
		data.element.left
		// Top offset of the element
		data.element.top
		// Width of the element (including padding and border)
		data.element.width
		// Height of the element (including padding and border)
		data.element.height

		// Information about the target element (same structure as data.element)
		data.target

		// Where the element is relative to the target
		// Possible values: left, right, center
		data.horizontal
		// Possible values: top, bottom, middle
		data.vertical

		// When providing a using callback, the position of the element is
		// calculated, but the element is not moved. You will need to position
		// the element yourself:
		$( this ).css( position );
	}
});
```



## Tabs

The Tabs API has been redesigned. You may want to read the
[discussions behind the changes](https://forum.jquery.com/topic/tabs-api-redesign).

### Added `refresh` method

([#7140](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7140))
Tabs now has a `refresh` method which will detect tabs that have been added or
removed. Simply modify the underlying markup the same way you would prior to
initialization and then call the `refresh` method and the widget will take care
of everything else. See below in the notes for the deprecated `add` and `remove`
methods for examples of how to use the `refresh` method.



### Added `heightStyle` option

([#8345](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8345))
Tabs now has a `heightStyle` option which controls how the height of the panels
are determined. This matches the functionality of accordion's new `heightStyle`
option. The possible values are:

* `auto`: All panels will be set to the height of the tallest panel.
* `content`: Each panel will be only as tall as its content.
* `fill`: The panels will expand to fill the available space in the tab set's parent.



### Added data to the `create` event

([#7868](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7868))
The `create` event now provides `tab` and `content` data. This makes it
easier to write consistent code for initialization and activation.

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	create: function( event, ui ) {
		// Tab that is active on initialization
		ui.tab
		// Panel that is active on initialization
		ui.panel
	}
});
```



### New keyboard handling and improved accessibility

([#3079](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3079))
([#7845](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7845))
Tabs now has full ARIA support and proper keyboard navigation. The UP, DOWN,
LEFT, RIGHT, HOME, and END keys navigate through the tabs. SPACE and ENTER both
activate panels, but ENTER can also collapse panels (if the `collapsible` option
is enabled). Navigating through the tabs does not immediately activate the
panels; there is a short delay so that users can navigate through the tabs
without activating each tab along the way. Navigating while holding CTRL will
prevent the automatic activation, making it possible for users of assistive
technologies such as screen readers to have as much time as they need while
navigating without activating each tab. ALT+PAGE UP and ALT+PAGE DOWN will move
focus to the previous or next tab, respectively, and immediately activate the
tab (this works regardless of whether focus is on the tabs or in a panel). When
focus is in a tab panel, CTRL+UP will move focus to the associated tab.



### Deprecated `fx` option; use `show` and `hide` options

([#8319](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8319))
The `fx` option has been deprecated in favor of new `show` and `hide` options.
The `show` and `hide` options provide more customization over animations. See
below, in the Widget section, for more details about the `show` and `hide`
options. You should replace all uses of the `fx` option with `show` and `hide`.

**The `fx` option will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `ajaxOptions` and `cache` options; added `beforeLoad` event

([#7131](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7131))
The `ajaxOptions` and `cache` options have been deprecated in favor of a new
`beforeLoad` event. The event receives a `jqXHR` object and the settings object
that will be passed to `jQuery.ajax()`. The settings passed to the `beforeLoad`
event can be modified, allowing the functionality that the `ajaxOptions` option
previously provided. If you prevent the default action of the event, then the
ajax request will not be made and the tab will be immediately shown. This
provides the functionality that the `cache` option provided, but with much more
fine-grained control. In addition, you can now interact with the `jqXHR` object,
allowing additional functionality, such as setting headers.

Old API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	ajaxOptions: {
		username: "foo",
		password: "bar"
	}
});
```

New API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	beforeLoad: function( event, ui ) {
		ui.ajaxSettings.username = "foo";
		ui.ajaxSettings.password = "bar";
	}
});
```

Old API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	cache: true
});
```

New API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	beforeLoad: function( event, ui ) {
		if ( ui.tab.data( "loaded" ) ) {
			event.preventDefault();
			return;
		}

		ui.jqXHR.success(function() {
			ui.tab.data( "loaded", true );
		});
	}
});
```

**The `ajaxOptions` and `cache` options will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `url` method and use of `title` attribute; use `aria-controls` attribute

([#7132](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7132))
The `url` method has been deprecated in favor of leaving the `href` attribute
unmodified even for remote tabs. The `href` attribute will point to the actual
resource and the `aria-controls` attribute will point to the associated panel.
This means that the `title` attribute will no longer be used to specify a custom
panel id.

**The `url` method and use of the `title` attribute will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `abort` method

([#7133](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7133))
As mentioned above, the new `beforeLoad` event exposes the `jqXHR` object for
ajax requests. Having access to the `jqXHR` object gives you full control over
the requests. As a result, the `abort` method has been deprecated, since you
can now directly abort the request.

**The `abort` method will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `spinner` option

([#7134](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7134))
The `spinner` option commonly caused confusion because it required the tab to
contain exactly one span in order to show the spinner. The functionality was
also fairly limited, allowing the injection of HTML, but no other customizations,
such as adding a class to the tab. This option has also been deprecated in favor
of using the `beforeLoad` event. Now that there are events before (`beforeLoad`)
and after (`load`), it's easy to implement customized functionality while remote
tabs are loading.

**The `spinner` option will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `selected` option; renamed to `active`

([#7135](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7135))
The `selected` option has been renamed to `active` for consistency with other
plugins in jQuery UI. You should replace all uses of the `selected` option with
the `active` option.

**The `selected` option will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `select` event; renamed to `beforeActivate`

([#7136](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7136))
The `select` event has been renamed to `beforeActivate` for consistency
with other plugins in jQuery UI. The data provided in the event has also been
changed. The `tab` property is now `newTab` and refers to the list item instead
of the anchor. The `panel` property is now `newPanel`. Both `tab` and `panel`
are now jQuery objects instead of DOM elements. The `index` property has been
removed. You should replace all uses of the `select` event with the
`beforeActivate` event.

Old API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	select: function( event, ui ) {
		// Panel that is about to be activated
		ui.panel
		// Tab associated with the panel that is about to be activated
		ui.tab
		// Index of the tab that is about to be activated
		ui.index
	}
});
```

New API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs({
	// CHANGED (previously select)
	beforeActivate: function( event, ui ) {
		// Panel that is currently active, about to be deactivated
		// ADDED
		ui.oldPanel
		// Tab associated with the currently active panel
		// ADDED
		ui.oldTab
		// Panel that is about to be activated
		// CHANGED (previously panel)
		ui.newPanel
		// Tab associated with the panel that is about to be activated
		// CHANGED (previously tab)
		ui.newTab

		// Index can be calculated if needed
		ui.newTab.index()
	}
});
```

*Note: Although the callback name is camelCase, all event names are lowercase;
therefore the associated event name is `tabsbeforeactivate`.*

**The `select` event will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `show` event; renamed to `activate`

([#7137](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7137))
The `show` event has been renamed to `activate` for consistency
with other plugins in jQuery UI. Just like the `beforeActivate` event,
the data provided has changed: `tab` is now `newTab`, `panel` is now `newPanel`,
`index` has been removed, and `oldTab` and `oldPanel` have been added.
You should replace all uses of the `show` event with the `activate` event.

**The `show` event will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `select` method

([#7138](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7138))
The `select` method has been deprecated in favor of just updating the `active`
option. You should replace all calls to the `select` method with calls to
the `option` method to change the `active` option.

Old API:

```js
// Activate the third tab (zero-based index)
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "select", 2 );
```

New API:

```js
// Activate the third panel
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "option", "active", 2 );
```

**The `select` method will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `add` and `remove` methods and events; use `refresh` method

([#7141](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7141))
The `add` and `remove` methods have been deprecated in favor of the `refresh`
method, which brings consistency with other plugins in jQuery UI. With the `add`
and `remove` methods being deprecated, the associated `add` and `remove` events
have been deprecated as well. You should replace all uses of the `add` and
`remove` methods with direct markup changes and the `refresh` method.

Old API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "remove", 2 );
```

New API:

```js
// Remove the tab
var tab = $( "#tabs" ).find( ".ui-tabs-nav li:eq(2)" ).remove();
// Find the id of the associated panel
var panelId = tab.attr( "aria-controls" );
// Remove the panel
$( "#" + panelId ).remove();
// Refresh the tabs widget
$( "tabs" ).tabs( "refresh" );
```

Old API:

```js
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "add", "/remote/tab.html", "New Tab" );
```

New API:

```js
$( "<li><a href='/remote/tab.html'>New Tab</a></li>" )
	.appendTo( "#tabs .ui-tabs-nav" );
$( "#tabs" ).tabs( "refresh" );
```

**The `add` and `remove` methods and events will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `idPrefix`, `tabTemplate`, and `panelTemplate` options; use `refresh` method

([#7139](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7139))
As mentioned above, the `add` and `remove` methods have been deprecated. As a
result, the `idPrefix`, `tabTemplate`, and `panelTemplate` options have been
deprecated as well. You should replace all uses of the `idPrefix`, `tabTemplate`,
and `panelTemplate` options with the markup you would like to use.

**The `idPrefix`, `tabTemplate`, and `panelTemplate` options will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `enable` and `disable` events

([#7142](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7142))
Tabs was the only plugin that triggered `enable` and `disable` events. These
events have been deprecated to create consistency between tabs and the other
plugins in jQuery UI.

**The `enable` and `disable` events will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `length` method

([#7143](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7143))
The `length` method wasn't very useful and the number of tabs can easily be
determined by checking the number of elements in the list. As a result, the
`length` method has been deprecated.

**The `length` method will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `cookie` option

([#7144](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7144))
Support for cookies is not part of the core functionality for tabs and there are
many ways to manage state across page loads. Therefore, the `cookie` option has
been deprecated in favor of setting the `active` option appropriately during
initialization.

**The `cookie` option will be removed in 1.10.**



### CSS class name changes for consistency

([#7146](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7146))
The `ui-tabs-selected` class has been renamed to `ui-tabs-active`.
The `ui-state-processing` class has been renamed to `ui-tabs-loading`.
The `ui-tabs-hide` class has been removed and tabs are now hidden using `.hide()`.
If you were styling the `ui-tabs-selected` or `ui-state-processing` classes, you
will need to switch to styling `ui-tabs-active` and `ui-tabs-loading`.



### Removed `rotate` method

([#5939](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5939))
The `rotate` method has been removed as it is fairly uncommon and unrelated to
the core functionality of tabs. Christopher McCulloh has implemented an
[extension](https://github.com/cmcculloh/jQuery-UI-Tabs-Rotate) based on the
original code, which will add back the `rotate` method along with some additional
rotation functionality.



## Widget

### The `widget` method now maintains the stack

([#5732](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5732))
The `widget` method provides a way to access widget-generated content, such as
the wrapper of a dialog or the menu of an autocomplete widget. Previously the
return value was a new jQuery object which had no stack. Now the return value
is pushed on to the existing stack that was used when calling the `widget`
method. This allows you to call `.end()` after calling the `widget` method and
get back to your previous selection.



### Added `document` and `window` properties

([#7801](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7801))
In some cases, widgets are used in different windows than the one in which the
code was loaded. It's easy to fall into a trap where this won't work if you
reference globals such as `window` or `document`. In order to avoid falling into
this trap, we've added `window` and `document` properties to all widgets which
are jQuery objects that contain the correct values based on the element
associated with the widget instance.



### Added `_delay` method

([#8470](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8470))
Widgets now have a `_delay` method which functions similar to `setTimeout` except
that it maintains the context so that `this` is the plugin instance. You can
pass either a function or the name of a method on the widget for the first
parameter. The second parameter is the delay in milliseconds and is optional,
with a default value of `0`.



### Added `_getCreateEventData` method for providing data in the `create` event

([#8045](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8045))
All widgets trigger a `create` event upon instantiation, but there was previously
no way to provide data for this event. To remedy this, we've added a new,
`_getCreateEventData`, which should return the data to provide in the `create`
event. If you're building a widget and you'd like to provide data, simply add a
`_getCreateEventData` method which returns an object containing the data you
would like to provide. If you don't have any data to provide, you can just omit
this method.



### Added `_destroy` method

([#5056](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5056))
There are very few places in which common functionlity requires you to call into
a parent method in order for a widget to be implemented properly. The `destroy`
method has traditionally been such a case, where all widgets need to implement
widget-specific destroy logic, but also call into the base `destroy` method for
proper cleanup. The base `destroy` method now calls `_destroy` so that you no
longer need to worry about this. Existing `destroy` methods that call into the
parent will continue to work, but we recommend changing to `_destroy` and
removing the call to the parent `destroy` method.

Old API:

```js
$.widget( "demo.widget", {
	destroy: function() {
		// Invoke the base destroy method
		$.Widget.prototype.destroy.call( this );
		// Perform widget-specific cleanup
		...
	}
});
```

New API:

```js
$.widget( "demo.widget", {
	_destroy: function() {
		// Perform widget-specific cleanup
		...
	}
});
```



### Added `$.widget.extend` to handle array references

([#7718](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7718))
Since widgets perform a deep extend on options, it was not previously possible
to pass an array and keep a reference to it from outside of the widget. In order
to deal with this, we've add `$.widget.extend` which performs a deep extend on
objects, but copies arrays by refernce. `$.widget.extend` is now used for all
option merging inside widgets.



### Added `_hoverable` and `_focusable` methods

([#3673](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3673))
Almost every widget applies styles on hover and focus, so we've added two new
methods to simplify the implementation across all of the plugins. The
`_hoverable` method adds the `ui-state-hover` class on hover and the `_focusable`
method adds the `ui-state-focus` class on focus. Both methods are smart enough
to not add the class if the widget is disabled. In addition, the widgets will
automatically remove the associated events and classes if the widget instance is
destroyed. Simply pass a jQuery object containing the elements you want to
respond to hover or focus and everything will be hooked up for you.

```js
this._hoverable( this.element.find( ".hoverable-elements" ) );
```



### Added `_show` and `_hide` methods to support `show` and `hide` options

([#3772](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3772))
There has historically been quite a bit of inconsistency with respect to how
effects are applied to widgets. Each widget had its own API and differing levels
of support for various effect types and settings. We now have a standardized
implementation which is implemented in the base wiget and exposed as the `_show`
and `_hide` methods. These methods are designed to support new common options
named `show` and `hide`. These methods/options provide support for any combination
of settings and effects, from no animation to core animations such as fade and
slide to advanced jQuery UI effects such as fold and explode, with support for
customized easings and durations.

#### Options API

The following examples use the `show` option. The `hide` option has the same
support, but the animations are reversed, e.g., `.fadeOut()` instead of
`.fadeIn()`.

If the value is falsey, then no animation will occur and the element will be
shown immediately.

```js
// Equivalent: .show()
show: null
```

If the value is true, then the element will fade in with the default duration
and the default easing.

```js
// Equivalent: .fadeIn()
show: true
```

If the value is a number, then the element will fade in with the specified
duration using the default easing.

```js
// Equivalent: .fadeIn( 1000 )
show: 1000
```

If the value is the name of a jQuery method, then that method will be used with
the default duration and default easing.

```js
// Equivalent: .slideDown()
show: "slideDown"
```

If the value is the name of a jQuery UI effect, then that effect will be used
with the default duration and default easing.

```js
// Equivalent: .show( "fold" )
show: "fold"
```

If the value is an object, then `effect`, `duration`, and `easing` properties
may be provided. If the `effect` property contains the name of a jQuery method,
then that method will be used; otherwise it is assumed to be the name of a jQuery
UI effect. When using a jQuery UI effect that supports additional settings, you
may include those settings in the object and they will be passed to the effect.
If `duration` or `easing` is omitted, then the default values will be used. If
the `effect` is omitted, then `"fadeIn"` will be used.

```js
// Equivalent: .slideDown( 500, "easeOutBounce" )
show: {
	effect: "slideDown",
	duration: 500,
	easing: "easeOutBounce"
}

// Equivalent: .show({ effect: "explode", duration: 500, pieces: 25 })
show: {
	effect: "explode",
	duration: 500,
	pieces: 25
}
```

#### Method API

The `_show` and `_hide` methods accept three parameters: the element to
show/hide, the options, and a callback. The usage will generally look like:

```js
this._show( someElement, this.options.show, function() {
	// Do stuff after the element is shown
});
```



### Added support for working with nested options via the `option` method

([#7035](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7035))
([#7459](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7459))
Some widgets have nested options, such as button's `icons.primary` option. The
`option` method now supports getting and setting nested options. It was
previously not possible to get or set `icons.primary` by itself, you could only
work with the entire `icons` option. You can now get or set options as deep as
you want by simply providing the dot-separated path for the option you want to
work with.

```js
// Get the icons.primary option
var primaryIcon = $( "#button" ).button( "option", "icons.primary" );

// Set the icons.primary option
$( "#button" ).button( "option", "icons.primary", "ui-icon-wrench" );
```



### Added `_super` and `_superApply` methods

([#6861](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6861))
Widgets support inheritance and all widgets have at least one parent, with
`$.Widget` being the default parent. Up until now there hasn't been anything in
the widgets to make calling methods on the parent easy, resulting in code like
`$.Widget.prototype._setOption.call( this, "foo", "bar" )`. With the addition of
`_super` and `_superApply`, calling methods on the parent is now cleaner and
you no longer need to have a hard-coded reference to the parent's prototype.
The `_super` method will invoke the method of the same name as the method that's
currently being run and will pass through any parameters. The `_superApply`
method works the same way, but accepts an array of parameters.

Old API:

```js
$.Widget.prototoype._setOption.call( ths, "foo", "bar" );
```

New API:

```js
this._super( "foo", "bar" );
```

*Note: Assumes that this is called from inside `_setOption`.

Old API:

```js
$.Widget.prototype._setOption.apply( this, arguments );
```

New API:

```js
this._superApply( arguments );
```

*Note: Assumes that this is called from inside `_setOption`.



### Added `_on` and `_off` methods for simplified event binding

([#5207](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5207))
([#7795](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7795))
([#8385](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8385))
Almost every widget needs to bind event handlers for part of its functionality.
The widget then needs to track the event handlers or bind them using a common
namespace so that they can be unbound when the widget instance is destroyed.
In addition, most event handlers should not run if the widget is disabled. We've
added two new methods, `_on` and `_off`, to handle these issues automatically.
These methods support delegation and will ensure that two instances of the same
widget won't interfere with each other even if they both bind to the same
element(s). The `_on` method accepts two parameters: the element to bind to and
an events-map. The first parameter can be anything that `jQuery` accepts, such
as a selector, DOM element, or jQuery object. The keys of the events-map can be
the name of the event to listen for or the name of an event followed by a space
and a selector for delegated event handlers. The values of the events-map can
either be a function or a string containing the name of a method to call. If a
string is provided, then the method lookup is performed at the time of the event,
which means if the method is changed after the call to `_on`, the new method will
be invoked when the event occurs. Inside the event handlers, `this` is the plugin
instance.

```js
this._on( someElement, {
	mousedown: function( event ) {
		this._handleDown();
	},
	mouseup: "_handleUp",
	"click .other-element": function( event ) {
		this._handleClick( event.target );
	}
});
```



### Added `defaultElement` property for auto-generating elements

([#8473](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8473))
Widgets can now be instantiated without an element and an element will
automatically be generated during instantiation. By default the element will be
`<div>` but the widget can define any string of HTML in the `defaultElement`
property on the prototype and that will be used to generate the element. This
only comes into play when instantiating a widget instance directly.

```js
var dialog1 = $.ui.dialog();
var dialog2 = $.ui.dialog({ title: "Hooray" });
```



### Improved API for direct instantiation

([#6891](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6891))
Direct instantiation of widgets used to require the `new` keyword or calling
the `_createWidget` method directly. Now calling the constructor without the
`new` keyword will always instantiate the widget, and calling with `new` will
only instantiate the widget if at least one parameter is passed (this is needed
for simple inheritance).

```js
var dialog1 = $.ui.dialog();
var dialog2 = $.ui.dialog( options );
var dialog3 = $.ui.dialog( options, element );
var dialog4 = new $.ui.dialog( options );
var dialog5 = new $.ui.dialog( options, element );
```



### Allow non-DOM based widgets

([#6895](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6895))
Widgets can now be self-contained and not tied to DOM elements. In order to
create a widget that is not tied to the DOM, the `defaultElement` must be set to
`null` (see above for details about `defaultElement`). For widgets that are not
tied to the DOM, all events triggered by the widget will occur directly on the
instance.

```js
var instance = $.demo.widget();
$( instance ).on( "someevent", function( event ) {
	// Handle the event
});
instance.someMethod();
```



### Allow redefining widgets to create extensions

([#6937](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/6937))
Previously the only way to extend a widget was to modify the prototype directly.
Now, widgets can be redefined through `$.widget` just like any other widget that
inherits from another widget. The ability to redefine widgets combined with the
new `_super` and `_superApply` methods provides a much nicer API for creating
widget extensions. To redefine a widget, just pass the existing constructor as
the base and provide the same name.

Old API:

```js
var open = $.ui.dialog.prototype.open;
$.ui.dialog.prototype.open = function() {
	console.log( "The dialog is being opened." );
	open.call( this );
};
```

New API:

```js
$.widget( "ui.dialog", $.ui.dialog, {
	open: function() {
		console.log( "The dialog is being opened." );
		this._super();
	}
});
```

It's possible to redefine a widget that other widgets are already inheriting
from as well. Doing so will not affect any instances that have already been
created, but it's unlikely that you would be redefining a widget after
instantiating any instances anyway.



### Moved version numbers into prototypes

([#7436](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7436))
Version numbers have been moved into the widget prototypes so that they persist
on the instances. This allows you to tell which version was used for each widget
instance if multiple version of jQuery UI are loaded on a page. The version
property still exists directly on the constructor as well for backward
compatibility. If you're creating widgets with the widget factory and you're
setting version numbers on your constructors, you should move the version to the
prototypes; the version will automatically be copied to the constructor for you.



### Deprecated use of metadata plugin

([#7191](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7191))
All widgets currently support use of the metadata plugin to specify options that
should be used on instantiation. With the addition of `_getCreateOptions` in
1.8.6, there was no longer a need for this to be built-in. Use of the metadata
plugin is now deprecated. You should remove all uses of the metadata plugin for
specifying options or implement `_getCreateOptions` to behave how you want.

**Use of the metadata plugin will be removed in 1.10.**



### Deprecated `widgetBaseClass` property; renamed to `widgetFullName`

([#8154](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8154))
The `widgetBaseClass` property was originally added for prefixing class names,
but is useful for more than just class names. As such, we have renamed this
property to `widgetFullName`. You should replace all uses of `widgetBaseClass`
with `widgetFullName`.

**The `widgetBaseClass` property will be removed in 1.10.**



### Widget pseudo selectors are now lowercase

([#8433](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8433))
Widgets auto-create selectors based on the widget name. For example, a widget
created with `$.widget( "foo.barBaz", {} )` would create a `:foo-barBaz`
selector. Sizzle treats this the same as the lowercase version `:foo-barbaz`.
However, in order to be consistent with all standard selectors, we have changed
the selectors to be generated as all lowercase.



### Calling an invalid method now throws an error

([#5972](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5972))
Previously, calling a non-existent or non-public method would result in a no-op.
This will now result in an error being thrown. Technically, `$.error` will be
called, which defaults to throwing an `Error`.



## Effects

### Renamed all effects files

All effects files have been renamed from `jquery.effects.*.js` to
`jquery.ui.effect-*.js` and `jquery.effects.core.js` has been renamed to
`jquery.ui.effect.js`.



### Rewrote all easing equations to only rely on state

([#8115](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/8115))
Easing questions are provided with a lot of information: the starting and ending
values, the current state (in percentage), how long (in millisends) the animation
has been running, and how long the animation will run in total. In reality, only
the current state is necessary. All of the easing equations have therefore been
simplified to only rely on state and the implementations have been changed for a
dramatic saving in file size. In the process, a few equations were changed, but
those that were changes are extremely close to their original equations and it
is unlikely that anyone can notice the differences without transposing graphs of
the old and new equations on top of each other.



### Added `children` option to class animations

([#3939](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3939))
The class animation methods (`addClass`, `removeClass`, and `toggleClass`) now
support a `children` option, which will also animate descendant elements. This
option defaults to `false` due to the overhead of calculating which styles to
animate on large DOM trees.

```js
element.addClass( "foo", {
	duration: 1000,
	children: true
});
```



### Blind effect's `direction` option now supports `up`, `down`, `left`, and `right`

([#4880](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4880))
The blind effect already supported `vertical` and `horizontal` for the `direction`
option. It now accepts `up`, `down`, `left`, and `right`, creating consistency
with other effects such as drop and slide. `vertical` is the same as `up` and
`horizontal` is the same as `left`.



### Upgraded to jQuery Color 2.0.0

([#3806](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/3806))
([#4372](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/4372))
([#5215](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/5215))
jQuery UI's core effects file contains a copy of
[jQuery Color](https://github.com/jquery/jquery-color), which has recently
received a major upgrade. jQuery UI now includes jQuery Color 2.0.0, which
brings lots of new features and bug fixes. We encourage you to read the jQuery
Color documentation for full details.



### Redesigned effects API

([#7060](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7060))
([#7103](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7103))
([#7318](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7318))
Effects have undergone a minor redesign to clean up the API. Individual effects
are now defined on `$.effects.effect` rather than directly on `$.effects`. This
makes it possible to distinguish between actual effects and helper methods.
Effects now automatically handle queuing and are passed a callback to invoke
when the animation is complete. In addition, there are no more nested options.
Effect-specific options are now merged into the main options, sitting alongside
`duration`, `easing`, etc. These changes only apply to effects that live in the
new `$.effects.effect` namespace; effects that live in `$.effects` still use the
old API, but are now deprecated. If you have custom effects, you should upgrade
them to the new API.

Old API:

```js
$.effects.rgb = function( options ) {
	return this.queue(function() {
		var element = $( this ),
			color = "rgb(" +
				(options.options.red || 128) + "," +
				(options.options.green || 128) + "," +
				(options.options.blue || 128) + ")";

		element.animate({
			backgroundColor: color
		}, {
			queue: false,
			duration: options.duration,
			easing: options.easing,
			complete: function() {
				if ( options.complete ) {
					options.complete.apply( this, arguments );
				}
				element.dequeue();
			}
		});
	});
};
```

New API:

```js
// CHANGED (previously $.effects.rgb)
// CHANGED (previously only had options parameter)
$.effects.effect.rgb = function( options, done ) {
	// CHANGED no more .queue() or return value

	var element = $( this ),
		color = "rgb(" +
			// CHANGED (previously options.options)
			(options.red || 128) + "," +
			(options.green || 128) + "," +
			(options.blue || 128) + ")";

	element.animate({
		backgroundColor: color
	}, {
		queue: false,
		duration: options.duration,
		easing: options.easing,
		// CHANGED (previously required manual dequeuing and options.complete)
		complete: done
	});
};
```

**Support for effects in `$.effects` will be removed in 1.10.**



## Theme

### Reversed `ui-icon-radio-on` and `ui-icon-radio-off`.

([#7475](http://bugs.jqueryui.com/ticket/7475))
The icons for the on and off states were reversed, causing `ui-icon-radio-on`
to show an empty radio and `ui-icon-radio-off` to show a more solid radio.
If you are using these classes, you will need to reverse the classes that you're
using.



## Build System

### Removed ant build; replaced with grunt

All jQuery projects now have new build processes, built on top of
[grunt](https://github.com/cowboy/grunt). Grunt is a task-based command line
build tool for JavaScript projects. Our projects are written in JavaScript,
our build files (Gruntfiles) are written in JavaScript, and our build tool (grunt)
is written in JavaScript. It's JavaScript all the way down! This change brings
a lot of benefits. Our build process is now written in a language that the entire
team is familiar with, and we have as much flexibility as we want. We're also
able to easily share portions of our build processes across our various projects.
In addition, our build process now works on all major operating systems.

To setup the build system you'll first need to install [node](http://nodejs.org/)
and then install jQuery UI's dependencies. Once you have node installed, run
the following commands from the root of your jQuery UI checkout:

```sh
npm install -g grunt
npm install
```

Here are just a few of the features that are available:

```sh
# Validate the JavaScript files using JSHint
grunt lint

# Validate the CSS files using CSSLint
grunt csslint

# Validate the HTML files using validator.nu
grunt htmllint

# Run all unit tests in PhantomJS
grunt qunit

# Build minified and concatenated files
grunt build
```
